In this particular two-dimensional map,
the robot has no idea where it's located at.
Since the initial state is unknown,
the robot is trying to estimate its pose by solving the global localization problem.
The robot has on-board range sensors which permits it to sense obstacles such as objects,
walls, and ultimately determine where it's located.
Here, the current robot pose is represented by an x coordinate,
y coordinate and the orientation vector,
all with respect to the global coordinate frame.
With the Monte Carlo localization algorithm,
particles are initially spread randomly and uniformly throughout this entire map.
These particles do not physically exist and are just shown in simulation.
Every red circle, represents a single particle.
And just like the robot,
each particle has an x coordinate,
y coordinate, and orientation vector.
So, each of these particles represents the hypothesis of where the robot might be.
In addition to the three-dimensional vector,
particles are each assigned a weight.
The weight of a particle is the difference between
the robot's actual pose and the particle's predicted pose.
The importance of a particle depends on its weight,
and the bigger the particle,
the more accurate it is.
Particles with large weights are more likely to survive during a resampling process.
For example, P2 will be twice as more likely to survive than P1,
since it has larger weight and thus a larger probability of survival.
After the resampling process,
particles with significant weight are more likely to
survive whereas the others are more likely to die.
Finally, after several iterations of the Monte Carlo localization algorithm,
and after different stages of resampling,
particles will converge and estimate the robot's pose.